README.md, before:

## Notes
Note: I used a Code space, but the course was expecting to clone the repo in my local drive

How to use each chapter exercise files:
- Spin a virtual environment: python3 -m virtualenv \<ch1\>
  Note: if you get "No module named virtualenv", install it first with pip install virtualenv (I used virtualenv instead of venv, because it was what the course was doing)
- Active it: source \<ch1\>/bin/activate
- Install dependencies: python -m pip install -r \<ch1\>_requirements.txt
Note: When running the cells the code space jupyter notebook for the first time I selected the <ch1> environment as the engine

Used a Key generated at: OpenAI GPT-4.1 · GitHub Models https://github.com/marketplace/models/azure-openai/gpt-4-1/playground (more info at "Hands-On AI: Introduction to Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) - Yujian Tang")
Certificate attached

# Advanced RAG Applications with Vector Databases
This is the repository for the LinkedIn Learning course `Advanced RAG Applications with Vector Databases`. The full course is available from [LinkedIn Learning][lil-course-url].

![lil-thumbnail-url]

## Course Description

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is everywhere these days, and vector databases are what give them their power. But RAG isn’t as simple as some companies claim, so it can be easy to get overwhelmed. In this course, discover state-of-the-art RAG methods, including how to optimize text-based RAG via chunking, embedding, and metadata usage, and how to conduct basic image search with a vector database. You’ll also get a chance to practice multimodal RAG by embedding and storing data and querying images with text. Along the way, instructor Yujian Tang provides practical, hands-on demonstrations and exercise challenges to test out your new skills.

## Installing
1. To use these exercise files, you must have the following installed:
	- Python 3.10 or 3.11
    - requirements.txt
2. Clone this repository into your local machine using the terminal (Mac), CMD (Windows), or a GUI tool like SourceTree.

## Instructor

Yujian Tang

AI Builder                  

Check out my other courses on [LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/instructors/yujian-tang?u=104).


[0]: # (Replace these placeholder URLs with actual course URLs)

[lil-course-url]: https://www.linkedin.com/learning/advanced-rag-applications-with-vector-databases
[lil-thumbnail-url]: https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/v2/D4E0DAQFonI7LTbFo_g/learning-public-crop_675_1200/learning-public-crop_675_1200/0/1727723235646?e=2147483647&v=beta&t=KcI1L2PD0dAs_AAGyJoMpneLG2Xb_HqAeue6F65UDHM

Commit message:

Updated readme with clarifications on how to use OpenAI key

README.md, after:

## Notes
Note: I used a Code space, but the course was expecting to clone the repo in my local drive

How to use each chapter exercise files:
- Spin a virtual environment: python3 -m virtualenv \<ch1\>
  Note: if you get "No module named virtualenv", install it first with pip install virtualenv (I used virtualenv instead of venv, because it was what the course was doing)
- Active it: source \<ch1\>/bin/activate
- Install dependencies: python -m pip install -r \<ch1\>_requirements.txt
Note: When running the cells the code space jupyter notebook for the first time I selected the <ch1> environment as the engine

Used a Key generated at: OpenAI GPT-4.1 · GitHub Models https://github.com/marketplace/models/azure-openai/gpt-4-1/playground (more info at "Hands-On AI: Introduction to Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) - Yujian Tang")

To import the Key I added a .env file with the OPENAI_API_KEY value in the default folder os.getcwd()
Default folder: 
Note: I added .env in .gitignore so the key was not added to source control

Used the following to load the value
print(os.getcwd())
from dotenv import load_dotenv
load_dotenv()
Note: I changed the instanciation of OpenAI to point to Azure OpenAI endpoint (where GitHub models are hosted)

To confirm the value was there I used:
import dotenv_values
print(len(dotenv_values()))
for key, value in dotenv_values().items():
    print(f"{key}: {value}")

To clean the output of the cell before commiting into git
from IPython.display import clear_output
clear_output()

# Advanced RAG Applications with Vector Databases
This is the repository for the LinkedIn Learning course `Advanced RAG Applications with Vector Databases`. The full course is available from [LinkedIn Learning][lil-course-url].

![lil-thumbnail-url]

## Course Description

Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) is everywhere these days, and vector databases are what give them their power. But RAG isn’t as simple as some companies claim, so it can be easy to get overwhelmed. In this course, discover state-of-the-art RAG methods, including how to optimize text-based RAG via chunking, embedding, and metadata usage, and how to conduct basic image search with a vector database. You’ll also get a chance to practice multimodal RAG by embedding and storing data and querying images with text. Along the way, instructor Yujian Tang provides practical, hands-on demonstrations and exercise challenges to test out your new skills.

## Installing
1. To use these exercise files, you must have the following installed:
	- Python 3.10 or 3.11
    - requirements.txt
2. Clone this repository into your local machine using the terminal (Mac), CMD (Windows), or a GUI tool like SourceTree.

## Instructor

Yujian Tang

AI Builder                  

Check out my other courses on [LinkedIn Learning](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/instructors/yujian-tang?u=104).


[0]: # (Replace these placeholder URLs with actual course URLs)

[lil-course-url]: https://www.linkedin.com/learning/advanced-rag-applications-with-vector-databases
[lil-thumbnail-url]: https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/v2/D4E0DAQFonI7LTbFo_g/learning-public-crop_675_1200/learning-public-crop_675_1200/0/1727723235646?e=2147483647&v=beta&t=KcI1L2PD0dAs_AAGyJoMpneLG2Xb_HqAeue6F65UDHM
